packing everyone and welcome to another
season a badger breakdown I Mike Lukas
for UW Badgers calm i'm joined by the
voice of the Badgers Matt Lupe all sorts
of expectations per usual for the start
of any season but a little bit different
this year with a new head coach and Gary
Anderson yeah there's an unknown I think
there would be and it probably most
teams across the country there'd be a
certain level of unknown but I think
there's a lot of intrigue here and Gary
Anderson throughout the course of the
summer probably ever since it got here
in late December is asked what would
define a good season I always liked his
answer was a very consistent with it he
wants the seniors to be able to walk out
of here with all of their heads held
high and knowing that they had a very
good experience at Wisconsin but maybe
isn't the answer that every fan wants to
hear you want to say championships next
number of wins but I think in our time
to get to know him he's pretty real and
i think that's that's a goal that's not
a bad one that's not a bad place to
start to be able to say your seniors you
know era of transition can still walk
out of here feeling pretty good about
their experiences now fair or foul Bret
Bielema always felt that this team had
the potential be one of his very finest
teams largely due to all that experience
all those seniors so maybe the parts are
here it's a matter of identifying and
getting them to fall into place yeah i
think that the leadership has a chance
to be very good and obviously we say
that from the outside looking in but
when you give a guy like her Chris
Borland a guy like Curt Phillips well
let's see how this year unfolds for him
but you know a guy who's been around a
long time now it was dealt with a lot
and has handled everything with such
class those are just couple of examples
right there but I think this is a senior
class of size and I think a senior class
of substance and there are question
marks to be sure but when you feel
pretty good about that veteran class at
senior class that does that isn't a bad
place to start everybody wants to know
what this team is gonna look like on the
field for the opener against UMass let's
start with the offense I think we can
say with some reasonable certainty the
Badgers are going to still run the ball
with with james white melvin gordon
james white people you know are always
supported maybe a lot of people are
surprised when you tell him that he has
the best yards per carry average
in Wisconsin history um now there's he
carried the ball as many times some of
those other guys know but when you're
averaging 6.1 / tote in a program that
has had montee ball and ron dayne and
you know on down the line we all know
the list James White is maybe somewhat
quietly to some he's been really good
and Melvin Gordon asked Nebraska he can
be really good too and if it's corey
clement whoever that third tailback is
going to be behind an offensive line
that maybe isn't as deep in terms of
scholarship players well definitely is
it as deep in terms of scholarship
players is what Gary Andersen TJ woods
and and anybody on this staff would want
there is some veteran experience there
and guys who played a lot and guys who
have been pretty good though sale backs
might have to morph into receivers too
because if you don't have a lot of depth
in the receiving corps one way to get
the ball outside or down the field asst
throw to your back yeah absolutely and
Gary Anderson has talked about that said
it at media day here here today earlier
today that you'll see James White and
Melvin Gordon on the field at the same
time we all know they have a lot of
tight ends we all know the question
marks at wide receiver beyond Jared
Abbrederis the position battles that'll
be going on there but when you have guys
like James White and Melvin Gordon they
can be dangerous in space and doesn't
mean you just turn around and hand it to
them you can get it to them in different
ways as far as the quarterback goes look
to be determined to be continued and
we'll leave it at that for now on
defense though there is a big transition
from what people here have been very
customed to seeing a 4 3 2 now a
different scheme and a 3 4 yeah and Gary
Anderson has said you'll see a little of
both but you will see the 34 and I think
he feels very confident or at least
feels very good as good as you can at
the beginning of a training camp about
the front seven when you have guys like
beau Allen and Ethan Armstrong Tyler
Dippel you have guys like Berlin and
likes guys like Brendan Kelly what he
can do outside in that 34 is an outside
linebacker I think he's very encouraged
at least to the potential of that front
seven but certainly some position
battles to be waged here in that
back-end outside of death southward the
other safety spot the two corners
that'll be an area
I was pretty impressed with Gary
Anderson in chicago two big 1080 of days
he didn't resist when asked about Chris
Borland probably the best linebacker in
the country and he said that he did yeah
I think that that may have turned a few
heads and people and I think of this
league we've covered this league know
that he's good but go back to to the
third week in december when Gary was
introduced to the to the media into the
fans here in Wisconsin who was the first
guy he mentioned Chris more when they
were preparing this time last year when
they were preparing to their
non-conference slate at a utah state
when the pop in some video of wisconsin
on defense 44 stands out and fortunately
he's got another year to stand out as
imagine i always get excited this time
of the year and some different reasons
why I think we're all excited about
seeing what this team is going to look
like yeah and no one I don't think is
any more excited than then Gary Anderson
as players because you can you can talk
all you want and gary has made the tour
of the state multiple times and then
Chicago last week on ESPN earlier in the
week I think he's probably like every
coach in America right now he's done
previewing it he wants to get his hands
dirty and see what this team can do firm
at lupe I'm Mike Lukas that's our
bachelor breakdown thanks for watching
eww Badgers calm